Reeves took Grant to the LACMA Art + Film Gala in 2019. They walked the red carpet holding hands, sparking romantic rumors. In 2019,  People   reported the two were dating for months before their big red carpet moment. Here, what to know about Reeves' girlfriend. Reeves and Grant have been friends since at least 2011. Their first project together was published then. Grant illustrated Reeves' book  Ode to Happiness. The two's relationship became romantic earlier in 2019, and they're ready to be more public. A source told  People  in  2019 that  “Keanu wants to openly share his life with her. He is extremely happy and grateful to have Alex in his life. [They] started dating earlier this year, but have wanted to keep it quiet. ” Grant is a 49-year-old artist who has worked with Reeves on multiple projects. People   notes that Grant illustrated two books that Reeves wrote: his 2011 book  Ode to Happiness  and his 2016 book  Shadows. They also founded a publishing company together, X Artists' Books in 2017. According to the  company's site , "XAB is a small publisher of thoughtful, high-quality, artist-centered books that fit within and between genres. Our books are works of art; portals to imagined worlds; treasured companions; the fabric of a community. We love the same things about our books as we do about our friends: generosity, open-heartedness, intelligence, mystery, style. They bring sustenance and shift realities. They may occasionally break your heart. " Grant and Reeves have gone to multiple red carpet events. David M. According to  People , the two were photographed at Giorgio Baldi in October 2019. They "arrived together in Reeve’s Porsche and spent three hours inside the restaurant conversing and sharing a meal. " They left together. Grant can officiate weddings. As  People  pointed out, the artist shared photos of her Instagram showing herself presiding over her friend's ceremony in Brooklyn. View full post on Instagram View full post on Instagram Grant is based in Los Angeles but has lived in four different countries. On  her artist site's bio , Grant wrote that her living abroad in Mexico, France, and Spain in her childhood and adolescence has strongly inspired her language-based work. Los Angeles felt like home from the moment I first arrived in 1995, especially the diversity of people, idioms, foods, and plants (like jacaranda and bougainvillea). There’s an incredible work ethic here—many people are creative and entrepreneurial. Having friends who are working hard practicing their crafts—whether it’s set design, publishing, or acting—is very inspiring. " Grant opened up about her relationship with Reeves in March 2020. A year ago, Grant spoke with  Vogue  about her relationship with Reeves. When asked about her and Reeves's debut as a couple, Grant had mixed emotions. "I think every single person I knew called me in the first week of November, and that's fascinating, but the question I've been asking in all of this is: 'What is the opportunity for good," she said. Reeves and Grant enjoyed a rare night out in March 2021. Over a year into quarantine, Grant and Reeves' romance is still going strong. The private twosome were seen dining at Spago in Beverly Hills. Reeves'  Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure  co-star Alex Winter and his family attended as well. Reeves and Grant were  photographed  wearing matching black outfits as they left the restaurant. The outing was one of the first public sightings of the couple in the new year. Reeves and Grant enjoyed a date night in NYC in July 2022. Keanu Reeves Alexandra Grant went to see a play in New York City on Friday, July 8. The show is a production of American Buffalo that stars Reeves' Matrix co-star, Laurence Fishburne. The couple went out looking elegant, but comfortable. Reeves was wearing a black t-shirt with a blazer in a dark grey that matched his slacks, paired with brown leather shoes. Grant wore a sleeveless navy blue dress that stopped just above her ankles, showing off her sandals covered in small gold beading. In an interview with  People   published on March 28, he discussed Grant being the person with whom he spent his last moment of bliss. “A couple of days ago with my honey [was my last moment of bliss],” he said. “We were in bed. We were connected. We were smiling and laughing and giggling. Feeling great. It was just really nice to be together. ” They shared a little red carpet PDA in April 2023. In April, Reeves and Grant walked the red carpet at the Museum of Contemporary Art Gala in Los Angeles. They paused to share a kiss together in front of photographers. Grant was honored at the Los Angeles Beverly Arts Icon Awards on Friday, September 22, and was asked about Reeves by reporters, specifically what it's like dating someone so famous. “The good news about falling in love as an adult is that I had built my own career by the time that my relationship had begun,” she told  People. “I feel very confident in the relationship on the red carpet. I feel confident on it alone. ” She also shared a story about working on her art and sharing frustrations with her boyfriend. “In a moment of frustration in my life, I once said, ‘Sometimes I feel like a Maserati stuck in traffic,’ that I have this big engine, but, for a variety of reasons, that I couldn't ever go,” she explained. “And I know a lot of people feel frustrated in their lives, that they're not able to run their engine. I think every creative person feels that way. ” She continued, “What I love about Keanu and our exchange is that we're pushing each other to build new roads. Seeing the other person's problem-solving is inspiring, like, ‘Oh, well, okay, this one, that's a cul-de-sac. How do I try this other thing?’”  Grant also drew a connection to what they both do as artists, even though they work in different mediums. “He's such an inspiration to me. He's so creative, he's so kind,” she said. “He works so hard. To make a film, you require hundreds of people. To be an artist, you don't. You require one. You require a community to get the work into the world, but not to actually make it. I think part of the inspiration is the differences of scale. ” She also talked about Reeves' other project, his band Dogstar. “I'm really proud,” she said. “I am a huge Dogstar fan. I had the great pleasure of going to their first public show and because I've been listening to the latest album for quite some time, I was one of the only people in the audience who knew all the lyrics. That was really cool. It's fun. It's beyond fun. ” Grant and Reeves held hands during another date night at the LACMA Art + Film Gala in November 2023. Grant and Reeves, dressed in Gucci, had another public date night at the 2023 LACMA Art + Film Gala in Los Angeles on November 4. They posed together for photographers and held hands at the event. Both wore black.