There’s a lot you probably don’t know about him, from his early life as a young actor to his behind-the-scenes exploits and work outside of movies. So it might surprise you to learn that Reeves isn’t actually American. He moved to Ontario when he was a kid after his parents split up and his mother remarried a stage and film director. Reeves remains a Canadian citizen, with an American green card through his stepfather. Preston, Esq. Meanwhile (according to the rumor),  Alex Winter  tried out for Ted, only to be cast as Bill. He thinks it might come from the fact that the two characters are so similar, he and Reeves lose track over who played who. This is especially true for the  John Wick  series, in which Reeves performs the vast majority of the driving, fighting, and gunplay himself. But one sequence In the original  John Wick  was more grueling than you realize. According to the director’s commentary track on the  John Wick  blu-ray, the actor had a fever of around 103° while filming that scene, which involved a lot of demanding physical activity and complicated choreography. What can we say? Keanu is a pro. ” Not only does his name make him stand out in a cast list, but it also seems to describe him perfectly, as if he visited his parents from the future and told them what name he should be given. The name “Keanu” is derived from Keaweaheulu, the name of a famous Hawaiian high chief from the 18 th  century. In addition, Keanu was the middle name of Reeves' uncle. He was actually expelled from one of them, an event the actor essentially attributes to “being a teenager. ” Reeves said he was “just a little too rambunctious and shot my mouth off once too often… I was not generally the most well-oiled machine in the school. He actually got one of his first film roles while still living in Canada, playing a hockey player alongside  Rob Lowe  in  Youngbloods. Reeves eventually driving to Los Angeles in a crummy old car to meet with an agent his stepfather, director Paul Aaron, had contacted for him. The agent, Erwin Stoff, represents him to this day. The two actors have never appeared in a film together, but have still managed to cross each other’s paths many times, beginning with Reeves’ audition to play  Jim Morrison  in director  Oliver Stone ’s  The Doors. “I just read some of Jim Morrison’s poetry and listened to some of his music and did what I could. ” Reeves would go on to replace Kilmer in the lead role in  Johnny Mnemonic  when Kilmer dropped out. A year later, Reeves was set to play Chris in the film  Heat  alongside  Robert DeNiro  and  Al Pacino , but had to back out and was replaced by Kilmer. He was especially good at hockey, and was apparently so formidable as a goalie that he earned the nickname “The Wall” while playing on the team at De La Salle College. We could’ve seen a whole decade of movies starring Keanu “The Wall” Reeves. But Reeves decided acting was his true calling and we got  Bill & Ted  instead, which is a fair trade. One of his first roles was as a racing cyclist in a Coke commercial, which aired in the early 1980s. In the commercial, which is readily available on YouTube, Reeves is up against a villainous Russian cyclist, because everything America did in the 1980s was about making Russians look bad. “I had so many Coca-Colas,” Reeves said, sharing that the commercial took three days to film and that he shaved his legs to look more believable as a cyclist. If you watch his films closely, you’ll notice that he generally writes with his left hand and does more complicated actions with his right. For example, when the courier arrives to deliver John Wick’s new puppy, he signs the delivery receipt with his left hand. During the film’s extensive action sequences, you can see that he fires all of his weapons right-handed. (Director  Jan de Bont  famously asked Reeves to trim his trademark long hair, to which Reeves responded by shaving his head entirely. However, Reeves turned them down, opting instead to take some time off from film, tour with his band and do some theater. That said, he claims to remember telling de Bont, “You know, boats aren’t that fast. The movie, about a kitten named Keanu who winds up in the middle of a gang war, is essentially a parody of  John Wick , so Peele and Key wanted Reeves to be involved. When Reeves saw the first trailer for  Keanu , he immediately contacted Key and Peele himself and asked if he could be in it. So he was added at the last minute as the voice of the kitten Keanu during a dream sequence. I could live on what I have already made for the next few centuries. ” Regardless of whether that quote is 100% accurate, it seems to convey how he actually feels – Reeves has generously supported medical research programs like Stand Up to Cancer and the SickKids Foundation, which is one of the largest pediatric research centers in the world. There’s a personal reason for all of this – Reeves confirmed in an interview that his sister, Kim, had been battling leukemia for many years. He’s generally seen as an action star, a romantic lead, or a comic buffoon, so it might be surprising to learn that he’s actually starred in several Shakespearean productions. He also played the villainous Don John in  Kenneth Branagh ’s 1993 adaptation of  Much Ado About Nothing , generally regarded as the best film version of the famous play. Reeves also tackled one of the most difficult Shakespeare roles when he played Hamlet for the Manitoba Theater Centre in 1995, a part he turned down  Speed 2: Cruise Control  to do. He’s another one of the iconic characters Reeves has brought to life, alongside Neo and Ted, but he’s not the first assassin Reeves has played. In sharp contrast to John Wick, Marlon is a soft-hearted guy who can’t actually bring himself to hurt anyone. He learned to ride while filming at a studio in Germany and immediately bought one for himself when he got back to the States. He’s owned many different kinds of bikes and driven thousands of miles on his favorite, a 1973 Norton Commando. Reeves even co-founded Arch Motorcycle Company, a custom motorcycle dealer. In addition to losing teeth, breaking his ankle, suffering road rash, and actually having a tooth go through his lip, Reeves ruptured his spleen when he crashed into the side of a mountain while riding his bike at night. One of the paramedics attending to him accidentally dropped one end of his stretcher, which Reeves actually thought was funny, all things considered. But he wasn’t always as gung-ho about taking bumps in front of the camera. But he eventually warmed up to the idea and convinced de Bont to let him do a particularly dangerous stunt wherein Reeves’ character jumps from a speeding Jaguar into a municipal bus as both vehicles rocket down the freeway. Trying to do martial arts while dangling from wires can be dangerous, however, and several of Reeves’ costars wound up with injuries, including  Laurence Fishburne  and  Hugo Weaving. It was so bad that he was beginning to experience paralysis in his legs, and if you notice, Reeves doesn’t throw many kicks in the first  Matrix  film. He had to get neck surgery to correct the problem. He’s actually a professional musician, having played bass in two different touring bands over the years. Reeves formed his first band, Dogstar, with his friend Robert Mailhouse, whom he met at a supermarket. The now-legendary nerd rock band  Weezer  actually played their first professional show opening for Dogstar, so in a way, Reeves deserves credit for all of Weezer’s success. When he recruited the duo to choreograph and direct  John Wick , he was expecting them to bring the same level of awesomeness. Rather than reuse any of the skills Reeves had developed filming  The Matrix , Stahelski wanted Reeves to learn martial arts that the actor had never done before. This included jiujitsu and the extensive “gun fu” techniques that have become the staple of the  John Wick  movies. ” The film was also adapted into an animated series called  Bill & Ted’s Excellent Adventures , and Reeves actually voiced his character Ted. Alex Winter and  George Carlin  also voiced their respective characters Bill and Rufus. However, the magic didn’t last, and they were all replaced for the show’s second and final season. The meme got so big it made its way back to Reeves himself, and he responded in the best way possible – by writing a book of ridiculously sad poetry. The pictures look like something you’d find in a seriously morose children’s book, and it all comes together as being extremely funny, which was Reeves’ intent. So he tried out other stage names, including “K. Reeves,” “Norman Kreeves,” “Chuck Spadina,” and, bizarrely, “Page Templeton III. That said, you can still see him credited as “K. Reeves” in some of his earlier roles, including an episode of  The Magical World of Disney. However, the actor believes that rejecting the part angered producers at 20 th  Century Fox so much that they refused to work with him for many years afterward. ” It doesn’t seem to have been that far from the truth – the actor didn’t star in another Fox production until  The Day The Earth Stood Still , which was released nearly 15 years after  Speed. One of Reeves’ stinkiest is the 2000 thriller  The Watcher. In the film, Reeves plays a serial killer who taunts the detective tasked with bringing him down. But Reeves didn’t actually want to be in the film. However, he alleges that his assistant forged his signature on a contract against his wishes. Reeves figured the forgery would be difficult to prove, and he didn’t want to get sued for breach of contract in the meantime, so he just did the movie anyway. But we’re willing to bet you didn’t know that Keanu Reeves currently has a role in a comedy detective show. Reeves plays the ghost of Stormare’s dead stuntman friend, who occasionally appears to give him advice. It currently airs on the Pop network in the U. He agreed to slash his own paycheck while filming the 2000 comedy  The Replacements  in order to work with  Gene Hackman. He did the same for the 1997 thriller  The Devil’s Advocate  to allow the producers to cast  Al Pacino  as the demonic John Milton. It’s clear he’s not worried about cutting into his own earnings to help make a better movie. In the film, he plays Jonathan Harker, a lawyer who travels to Count Dracula’s castle to help him settle some real estate problems. Dracula ( Gary Oldman ) becomes obsessed with Harker’s wife Mina, played by  Winona Ryder. Technically (and that word is admittedly doing a lot of work here), Reeves and Ryder might actually have gotten married during the production. While the “marriage” would in no way be legally binding, it is funny to think that the two actors were technically married while filming a vampire movie. In addition to designing outfits for the stars, she would also construct elaborate Halloween costumes for young Keanu, including Dracula and Batman. Ironically, Reeves would grow up to star in a blockbuster Dracula adaptation, and was in consideration to star as the villainous Scarecrow in an unmade Batman film. In an interview with Us magazine, Reeves said that Cooper “would bring fake vomit and dog poo to terrorize the housekeeper. ” A candid photo of Reeves sitting alone on a park bench, eating a sandwich and looking pensive, caught fire as a meme in the 2000s. The meme got so popular that fans eventually organized a Cheer Up Keanu Day in 2010, and Keanu himself is more than aware of it. He’s also said, “People started to do funny things with that Sad Keanu,” and assured fans in a 2017 interview, “I am not Sad Keanu anymore. It was a worldwide box office hit and a cultural phenomenon, cementing the already A-list Reeves as a mega star. The Matrix  would also wind up shaping a career resurgence for Reeves in an unexpected way. As Reeves was helping develop the script of  John Wick  with screenwriter  Derek Kolstad , he reached out to Stahelski and Leitch to see if they would be interested in working on the stunts, but secretly hoped they would agree to direct. Reeves’ unbridled enthusiasm convinced the duo to join the film. He has written for Cracked. The Doom Syndicate (2024)    			'Megamind vs. No winning ad found for zone: sidebar top!    Zone: first. GlobalCss     BidderTypeLibrary: MM Geo Group. BidderTypeLibrary: default - 78.